(font: Anonymous Pro)
# Fontogram - painless icons for WPF developers

Subtitle?
"Quick and easy icon generation for the busy software developer. Also: flexible, high quality scalable. Free! (icon)"

(Assuming here that the reader is familiar with WPF, which is the context in which Fontograms are used.)

The logo above was generated by combining text and shapes using the following lines of code:
...

This is a quick method for creating custom icons to boost the appearance of WPF applications,
using Windows' builtin high-quality text rendering at any size.

The method improves on the approach described here:
(https://blogs.windows.com/windowsdeveloper/2017/06/06/using-color-fonts-beautiful-text-icons/)
( Status of color font support in WPF: https://github.com/dotnet/wpf/issues/91 )

It brings color to non-UWP apps and makes it easy to combine parts into one vector image.

The icons are font-based, using characters supplied by any installed font.
 Each fontogram is a combination of text and WPF Border objects.

Given the range of symbols/characters in the many fonts available in Windows, I'd expect
that this method can completely cover the icon needs of most desktop applications.


The library offers a modest built-in set that can be used for warm-up.


## Icon packs
(Need mechanism for others to create icon libraries.)
The Fontogrammer app may help.
Maybe have a generic control type that takes an enumeration as a type parameter.


## What does this solve (benefits?)

- Quick and Easy (and gets easier with practice)
-- easy to use in a project (no need to look for images)
--- as easy as including a TextBlock inside a Border
-- built in, modifiable! (can overwrite any desired properties)
- Flexibility - rarely are the available icons exactly what you need (at least for status icons or other abstract concepts)
- Programmatically adjust color of any part - e.g. to indicate seriousness of a condition, intensity of a ... (value?), or just for different contexts
- Your own style
- Reuse of ready-made icons + partial attribute overrides
-

Scenario:
- can't spend time looking for solutions
- need 
- ok to improve the look incrementally


# How to

Example:
...

Each Fontogram is a collection of Recipes. In the example above, each semicolon separated element of a particular list is part of a different Recipe. If the longest list has n elements, then the Fontogram is made up of n Recipes.

A Recipe is a customizable pair consisting of a backdrop and a text ("Text"-prefixed properties), respectively defined by the "Back"- and "Text"-prefixed p1roperties. (The text is usually one character, but multiple characters are allowed.) The shape is WPF Border-based, acting as a "backdrop" for the text.

(sample images here)

There is a lot of room for creativity by combining multiple text-Border pairs.


The shapes' and texts' sizes and positioning are defined relative to the  result from the  are defined relative  of the Fontogram are resized relative to the 

 They are defined by setting the Fontogram's properties:
...

Note that the text will in general not be aligned with the specified text boundaries. 
 WPF/Windows positions the characters according to logical coordinates specified in the
definition of the font.


When set in XAML or programmatically,


To void the (not draw any) Backdrop or Text of a Recipe (e.g. because you want to apply Skew/Scale/Rotation to only one of them)


## What else is here... (tips?)

### Map an enumeration to a Fontogram
Add an extension method to the enumeration. (Have an example in the app.)

### Design mode control debugging
Attach to process XDesProc.exe (Microsoft Visual Studio XAML Designer)


### About fonts
http://designwithfontforge.com/en-US/What_Is_a_Font.html

### How to easily change the size of a control (Grid rows/cols + splitter)

### Programmatically work with grid column/row sizes

### Ideas for creating fontograms

Search by keyword in the VS (2015/2017/...) Image Libraries - (the PDFs); combine similar characters from available symbol fonts

### Generics for similar properties with different names


## List of symbols, with names
http://www.alanwood.net/demos/
http://www.unicode.org/emoji/charts/full-emoji-list.html
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/uwp/design/style/segoe-ui-symbol-font
? MS Reference Specialty
? Segoe UI Symbol


### The diverse things one can do with Borders
(Just a list of images, making creative use of different stroke thicknesses on different sides (including 0), different radii in different corners.)


## Builtin list


## APP: Create Bitmap (or SVG?! - unreliable fonts) icons for web apps
(we can use a window)
https://stackoverflow.com/questions/5189139/how-to-render-a-wpf-usercontrol-to-a-bitmap-without-creating-a-window

Create an HTML element? (would depend on platform it's viewed on)


## v1.5 Shadow, other effects?

## v2.0 Animated icons (with Dependency Properties?)
